## TAGOKOR Documentation and Data

This repository contains documents and data related to the (uh, upcoming) article "TAGOKOR: Biography of an Electronic Record" published in *Archive Journal* Issue 4 (sometime 2014) and available online at [link forthcoming when it is, like, published and stuff]. The article tells the story of the creation, acquisition, management, preservation, and use of a set of Korean War casualty records created by the U.S. Army and eventually acquired by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) as a series within Record Group 407. The series discussed is, officially: Korean War Casualty File (TAGOKOR), 2/13/1950 - 12/31/1953, Records on Korean War Dead and Wounded Army Casualties, 1950 – 1970, Records of the Adjutant General's Office, 1905 - 1981, Record Group 407, National Archives at College Park, College Park, MD. It can be found in NARA's online catalog with ARC identifier 583580 at [http://research.archives.gov/description/583580]

Included (eventually) in this repository are:

* Technical Documentation (technical_documentation): Technical documentation created by NARA describing TAGOKOR. These are also available from NARA online at [http://research.archives.gov/description/1128348].
* Paper Documentation (paper_documentation): Though TAGOKOR is an electronic record, the collection does include one archival box of additional paper documentation. Most (though not all) of these documents were photographed on a research visit to the Center for Electronic Records at "A2" the NARA location in College Park, MD in Summer 2013.
* Accession Dossier (accession_dossier): An accession dossier is NARA's administrative file for an archival collection. As an active record, accession dossiers are not publicly available upon  researcher request, but can be obtained via FOIA request (which NARA often encourages for those interested). The documentation included here scans of the entirety of the set of documents sent to me in response to my FOIA request, a copy of which is also included in the documents.
* Data (data): The raw ASCII dump of TAGOKOR data is available through NARA at [http://research.archives.gov/description/1128348] and is also included here (hash xxx, or whatever, when I post it). In addition, I have been decoding the data in Open Refine using the technical documents and an Open Refine project tarball (not yet completely decoded) is also included here (eventually, like, before publication date) along with a matching CSV.
* D3 (d3): As part of the article, I used D3 to visualize some of the TAGOKOR data. It is mostly pretty basic stuff, but I hope to do more (and fancier), time permitting. (Forthcoming at the point of writing).
